README.md, before:

# dropwizard-clojure

[dropwizard.io](http://dropwizard.io/)

## Table of Contents

1. [Leiningen](#leiningen)
2. [Creating a Configuration class](#creating-a-configuration-class)
3. [Creating an Application class](#creating-an-application-class)
4. [Creating a Representation class](#creating-a-representation-class)
5. [Creating a Resource class](#creating-a-resource-class)
6. [Creating a HealthCheck](#creating-a-healthcheck)
7. [Building fat JARs](#building-fat-jars)
8. [Running your Application](#running-your-application)

## Leiningen

```clojure
[dropwizard-clojure/dropwizard-clojure "0.1.0"]
```

## Creating a Configuration class

[TodoConfiguration.java](dropwizard-clojure-example/src/main/java/com/example/todo/TodoConfiguration.java)

```java
package com.example.todo;

import com.fasterxml.jackson.annotation.JsonProperty;
import io.dropwizard.Configuration;
import javax.validation.constraints.NotNull;

public class TodoConfiguration extends Configuration {
    @NotNull
    private int maxSize;

    @JsonProperty
    public int getMaxSize() {
        return maxSize;
    }

    @JsonProperty
    public void setMaxSize(int maxSize) {
        this.maxSize = maxSize;
    }
}
```

Dropwizard will serialize a yml file into your configuration class before starting the application.

[dev-todo.yml](dropwizard-clojure-example/resources/dev-todo.yml)

```yml
maxSize: 4
```

## Creating an Application class

Your dropwizard application requires a concrete implementation of `io.dropwizard.Application` that is parameterized with your configuration class from above. Unfortunately, clojure does not yet support specifying parameterized types. Thus, a tiny abstract application class is recommended to specify the parameterized configuration class.

[AbstractTodoApplication.java](dropwizard-clojure-example/src/main/java/com/example/todo/AbstractTodoApplication.java)

```java
package com.example.todo;

import io.dropwizard.Application;

public abstract class AbstractTodoApplication
    extends Application<TodoConfiguration> {
}
```

Now we're ready to write some clojure.

The `defapplication` macro is provided to conveniently create proxy instances of your abstract application class. Two function signatures are available. One that allows you override the `initialize` and `run` methods. The other allows you to override the `run` method only. Below the latter is shown.

The `defmain` macro is provided to conveniently generate a `main` method that will start your application correctly.

[core.clj](dropwizard-clojure-example/src/main/clojure/com/example/todo/core.clj)

```clojure
(ns com.example.todo.core
  (:require [dropwizard-clojure.core :refer [defapplication defmain]]
  (:import [com.example.todo AbstractTodoApplication TodoConfiguration]
           [io.dropwizard.setup Environment])
  (:gen-class))

(defapplication todo-app
  AbstractTodoApplication
  (fn [^TodoConfiguration config ^Environment env]
    ;; nothing to do yet
    ))

(defmain todo-app)

```

## Creating a Representation class

[Todo.java](dropwizard-clojure-example/src/main/java/com/example/todo/representations/Todo.java)

```java
package com.example.todo.representations;

import com.fasterxml.jackson.annotation.JsonProperty;
import org.hibernate.validator.constraints.NotEmpty;
import javax.validation.constraints.NotNull;

public class Todo {
    @NotNull
    private Boolean complete;
    @NotEmpty
    private String description;

    public Todo() {
        // Jackson deserialization
    }

    public Todo(Boolean complete, String description) {
        this.complete = complete;
        this.description = description;
    }

    @JsonProperty
    public Boolean getComplete() {
        return complete;
    }

    @JsonProperty
    public String getDescription() {
        return description;
    }
}
```

## Creating a Resource class

[core.clj](dropwizard-clojure-example/src/main/clojure/com/example/todo/resources/todo.clj)

```clojure
(ns com.example.todo.resources.todo
  (:require [clojure.tools.logging :as log])
  (:import [com.example.todo.representations Todo]
           [com.codahale.metrics.annotation Timed]
           [javax.validation Valid]
           [javax.ws.rs GET POST DELETE Path Consumes Produces PathParam]))

(definterface ITodo
  (get [])
  (delete [])
  (add [^Long id ^com.example.todo.representations.Todo todo])
  (get [^Long id])
  (toggle [^Long id])
  (delete [^Long id]))

(deftype ^{Path "/todo"
           Consumes ["application/json"]
           Produces ["application/json"]}
    TodoResource [state]
    ITodo
    (^{GET true Timed true} get [this] @state)

    (^{DELETE true Timed true} delete [this]
     (reset! state (atom {}))
     {})
    
    (^{Path "{id}" POST true Timed true}
     add [this ^{PathParam "id"} id ^{Valid true} todo]
     (swap! state assoc id todo))
    
    (^{Path "{id}" GET true Timed true}
     get [this ^{PathParam "id"} id]
     (get @state id))
    
    (^{Path "{id}/toggle" POST true Timed true}
     toggle [this ^{PathParam "id"} id]
     (swap! state update-in [id]
       #(Todo. (not (.getComplete %)) (.getDescription %))))

    (^{Path "{id}" DELETE true Timed true}
     delete [this ^{PathParam "id"} id]
     (swap! state dissoc id)))

(defn todo-resource []
  (TodoResource. (atom {})))
```

### Registering a Resource

[core.clj](dropwizard-clojure-example/src/main/clojure/com/example/todo/core.clj)

```clojure
(ns com.example.todo.core
  (:require [dropwizard-clojure.core :refer [defapplication defmain register-resource]]
            [com.example.todo.resources.todo :refer [todo-resource]]
  (:import [com.example.todo AbstractTodoApplication TodoConfiguration]
           [io.dropwizard.setup Environment])
  (:gen-class))

(defapplication todo-app
  AbstractTodoApplication
  (fn [^TodoConfiguration config ^Environment env]
    (register-resource (todo-resource))))

(defmain todo-app)
```

## Creating a HealthCheck

A healthcheck function must return one of the following values:

- a single value ∈ {true, false, nil}
- a vector of the form [healthy? ∈ {true, false, nil}, message ∈ {string, throwable}]

[todo_size.clj](dropwizard-clojure-example/src/main/clojure/com/example/todo/health/todo_size.clj)

```clojure
(ns com.example.todo.health.todo-size
  (:import [com.example.todo.resources.todo TodoResource]))

(defn todo-size [max-size ^TodoResource resource]
  (if (<= (count (.get resource)) max-size)
    true
    [false "too many todos"]))
```

### Registering a HealthCheck

[core.clj](dropwizard-clojure-example/src/main/clojure/com/example/todo/core.clj)

```clojure
(ns com.example.todo.core
  (:require [dropwizard-clojure.core
             :refer [defapplication defmain register-resource
                     register-healthcheck]]
            [com.example.todo.resources.todo :refer [todo-resource]]
            [com.example.todo.health.todo-size :refer [todo-size]])
  (:import [com.example.todo AbstractTodoApplication TodoConfiguration]
           [io.dropwizard.setup Environment])
  (:gen-class))

(defapplication todo-app
  AbstractTodoApplication
  (fn [^TodoConfiguration config ^Environment env]
    (let [resource (todo-resource)
          healthcheck #(todo-size (.getMaxSize config) resource)]
      (-> env
          (register-resource resource)
          (register-healthcheck :todo-size healthcheck)))))

(defmain todo-app)
```

## Building fat JARs

```sh
lein uberjar
```

## Running your Application

```sh
lein run server resources/dev-todo.yml
```

or

```sh
java -jar target/dropwizard-clojure-example-0.1.0-SNAPSHOT-standalone.jar server resources/dev-todo.yml
```

Commit message:

update README to reflect new healthcheck return values

README.md, after:

# dropwizard-clojure

[dropwizard.io](http://dropwizard.io/)

## Table of Contents

1. [Leiningen](#leiningen)
2. [Creating a Configuration class](#creating-a-configuration-class)
3. [Creating an Application class](#creating-an-application-class)
4. [Creating a Representation class](#creating-a-representation-class)
5. [Creating a Resource class](#creating-a-resource-class)
6. [Creating a HealthCheck](#creating-a-healthcheck)
7. [Building fat JARs](#building-fat-jars)
8. [Running your Application](#running-your-application)

## Leiningen

```clojure
[dropwizard-clojure/dropwizard-clojure "0.1.0"]
```

## Creating a Configuration class

[TodoConfiguration.java](dropwizard-clojure-example/src/main/java/com/example/todo/TodoConfiguration.java)

```java
package com.example.todo;

import com.fasterxml.jackson.annotation.JsonProperty;
import io.dropwizard.Configuration;
import javax.validation.constraints.NotNull;

public class TodoConfiguration extends Configuration {
    @NotNull
    private int maxSize;

    @JsonProperty
    public int getMaxSize() {
        return maxSize;
    }

    @JsonProperty
    public void setMaxSize(int maxSize) {
        this.maxSize = maxSize;
    }
}
```

Dropwizard will serialize a yml file into your configuration class before starting the application.

[dev-todo.yml](dropwizard-clojure-example/resources/dev-todo.yml)

```yml
maxSize: 4
```

## Creating an Application class

Your dropwizard application requires a concrete implementation of `io.dropwizard.Application` that is parameterized with your configuration class from above. Unfortunately, clojure does not yet support specifying parameterized types. Thus, a tiny abstract application class is recommended to specify the parameterized configuration class.

[AbstractTodoApplication.java](dropwizard-clojure-example/src/main/java/com/example/todo/AbstractTodoApplication.java)

```java
package com.example.todo;

import io.dropwizard.Application;

public abstract class AbstractTodoApplication
    extends Application<TodoConfiguration> {
}
```

Now we're ready to write some clojure.

The `defapplication` macro is provided to conveniently create proxy instances of your abstract application class. Two function signatures are available. One that allows you override the `initialize` and `run` methods. The other allows you to override the `run` method only. Below the latter is shown.

The `defmain` macro is provided to conveniently generate a `main` method that will start your application correctly.

[core.clj](dropwizard-clojure-example/src/main/clojure/com/example/todo/core.clj)

```clojure
(ns com.example.todo.core
  (:require [dropwizard-clojure.core :refer [defapplication defmain]]
  (:import [com.example.todo AbstractTodoApplication TodoConfiguration]
           [io.dropwizard.setup Environment])
  (:gen-class))

(defapplication todo-app
  AbstractTodoApplication
  (fn [^TodoConfiguration config ^Environment env]
    ;; nothing to do yet
    ))

(defmain todo-app)

```

## Creating a Representation class

[Todo.java](dropwizard-clojure-example/src/main/java/com/example/todo/representations/Todo.java)

```java
package com.example.todo.representations;

import com.fasterxml.jackson.annotation.JsonProperty;
import org.hibernate.validator.constraints.NotEmpty;
import javax.validation.constraints.NotNull;

public class Todo {
    @NotNull
    private Boolean complete;
    @NotEmpty
    private String description;

    public Todo() {
        // Jackson deserialization
    }

    public Todo(Boolean complete, String description) {
        this.complete = complete;
        this.description = description;
    }

    @JsonProperty
    public Boolean getComplete() {
        return complete;
    }

    @JsonProperty
    public String getDescription() {
        return description;
    }
}
```

## Creating a Resource class

[core.clj](dropwizard-clojure-example/src/main/clojure/com/example/todo/resources/todo.clj)

```clojure
(ns com.example.todo.resources.todo
  (:require [clojure.tools.logging :as log])
  (:import [com.example.todo.representations Todo]
           [com.codahale.metrics.annotation Timed]
           [javax.validation Valid]
           [javax.ws.rs GET POST DELETE Path Consumes Produces PathParam]))

(definterface ITodo
  (get [])
  (delete [])
  (add [^Long id ^com.example.todo.representations.Todo todo])
  (get [^Long id])
  (toggle [^Long id])
  (delete [^Long id]))

(deftype ^{Path "/todo"
           Consumes ["application/json"]
           Produces ["application/json"]}
    TodoResource [state]
    ITodo
    (^{GET true Timed true} get [this] @state)

    (^{DELETE true Timed true} delete [this]
     (reset! state (atom {}))
     {})
    
    (^{Path "{id}" POST true Timed true}
     add [this ^{PathParam "id"} id ^{Valid true} todo]
     (swap! state assoc id todo))
    
    (^{Path "{id}" GET true Timed true}
     get [this ^{PathParam "id"} id]
     (get @state id))
    
    (^{Path "{id}/toggle" POST true Timed true}
     toggle [this ^{PathParam "id"} id]
     (swap! state update-in [id]
       #(Todo. (not (.getComplete %)) (.getDescription %))))

    (^{Path "{id}" DELETE true Timed true}
     delete [this ^{PathParam "id"} id]
     (swap! state dissoc id)))

(defn todo-resource []
  (TodoResource. (atom {})))
```

### Registering a Resource

[core.clj](dropwizard-clojure-example/src/main/clojure/com/example/todo/core.clj)

```clojure
(ns com.example.todo.core
  (:require [dropwizard-clojure.core :refer [defapplication defmain register-resource]]
            [com.example.todo.resources.todo :refer [todo-resource]]
  (:import [com.example.todo AbstractTodoApplication TodoConfiguration]
           [io.dropwizard.setup Environment])
  (:gen-class))

(defapplication todo-app
  AbstractTodoApplication
  (fn [^TodoConfiguration config ^Environment env]
    (register-resource (todo-resource))))

(defmain todo-app)
```

The `register-resources` accepts of a list of resources and returns the environment to allow threading.

## Creating a HealthCheck

Functions may be registered to check the health of your application. The value returned from the function may optionally include a message or Throwable. If the value returned is a sequence, vector, or list, the first element is checked for truthiness to represent the health and the second element is the message or Throwable. Otherwise, the value returned is simply checked for truthiness to represent the health.

[todo_size.clj](dropwizard-clojure-example/src/main/clojure/com/example/todo/health/todo_size.clj)

```clojure
(ns com.example.todo.health.todo-size
  (:import [com.example.todo.resources.todo TodoResource]))

(defn todo-size [max-size ^TodoResource resource]
  (if (<= (count (.get resource)) max-size)
    true
    [false "too many todos"]))
```

### Registering a HealthCheck

[core.clj](dropwizard-clojure-example/src/main/clojure/com/example/todo/core.clj)

```clojure
(ns com.example.todo.core
  (:require [dropwizard-clojure.core
             :refer [defapplication defmain register-resource
                     register-healthcheck]]
            [com.example.todo.resources.todo :refer [todo-resource]]
            [com.example.todo.health.todo-size :refer [todo-size]])
  (:import [com.example.todo AbstractTodoApplication TodoConfiguration]
           [io.dropwizard.setup Environment])
  (:gen-class))

(defapplication todo-app
  AbstractTodoApplication
  (fn [^TodoConfiguration config ^Environment env]
    (let [resource (todo-resource)
          healthcheck #(todo-size (.getMaxSize config) resource)]
      (-> env
          (register-resource resource)
          (register-healthcheck :todo-size healthcheck)))))

(defmain todo-app)
```

The `register-healthchecks` accepts of map of healthcheck name to healthcheck function and returns the environment to allow threading.

## Building fat JARs

```sh
lein uberjar
```

## Running your Application

```sh
lein run server resources/dev-todo.yml
```

or

```sh
java -jar target/dropwizard-clojure-example-0.1.0-SNAPSHOT-standalone.jar server resources/dev-todo.yml
```
